Guide on how to add a new blockchain (#793)
ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic: docs-src/guides/add-new-blockchain.md

> # Add new blockchain
> 
> This document contains a guide on how to support new blockchains on Ceramic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Support a new blockchain

This document contains a guide on how to add support for a new blockchain to the `caip10-link` doctype, as well as use for authentication.
```

## Overview: Ceramic and blockchain accounts

Ceramic interacts with blockchain accounts in two ways:
- authentication,
- linking.

> *Authentication.* IdentityWallet (and 3id-connect) create `3id` (Ceramic flavour of DID) private keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Authentication.* 3ID Connect (using `3id-did-provider`) create `3id` (Ceramic flavour of DID) private keys
```

Below one additional process is mentioned: validation. It checks if _proof-of-ownership_ in the link is formally correct,
i.e., a well-known payload is really signed by the account that is declared in the link.

## Adding a new blockchain

To add a new blockchain one have to do both linking and validation sections. 

### Linking

We use [CAIP-10](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-10.md) to represent accounts in a blockchain agnostic way.
If the blockchain you want to add isn't already part of the CAIP standards you should make sure to add it there.

To add a new blockchain, one has to implement a new class implementing [AuthProvider](https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic/blob/develop/packages/blockchain-utils-linking/src/auth-provider.ts), put it
into [`@ceramicnetwork/blockchain-utils-linking`](https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic/tree/develop/packages/blockchain-utils-linking) package and export it.
See existing auth providers for inspiration.

Auth provider is expected to be mainly called in a web browser as part of [3id-connect](https://github.com/3box/3id-connect) flow.

> Auth provider sits between 3id-connect (or IdentityWallet) and your blockchain account provider. In case of Ethereum,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auth provider sits between 3id-connect (or 3ID DID Provider) and your blockchain account provider. In case of Ethereum,
```

it might be MetaMask. Auth provider is responsible mainly for:
- authentication (`#authenticate`): provide entropy,
- creating link (`#createLink`): create a LinkProof object which associates the specified AccountID with the DID.

Auth provider is expected to know which blockchain account it currently serves. It reports it via `#accountId`.
To reuse same internal settings, e.g. connection to blockchain provider, but with a different account,
auth provider should have `#withAddress` method.

To sum it all up, to add a new blockchain for linking:
- add new class implementing `AuthProvider` interface to `@ceramicnetwork/blockchain-utils-linking` package,

> - its `authenticate` method should ask blockchain provider for an authentication signature and return `0x`-prefixed string,

Reviewer: I think this should be a `0x`-prefixed hex string right? Should we also say that it should be 32 bytes?

Author: AFAIK, this goes through sha256 to really create an entropy, so it could be of any length.

https://github.com/3box/3id-connect/blob/typescript/src/connectService.ts#L201

Author: It is good though to still make that requirement in the docs to avoid problems down the line.

Author: "...and return 32 bytes in form of `0x`-prefixed hex string"

Reviewer: Thanks.

# Add support for new blockchain

> This document contains a guide on how to add support for a new blockchain to the `caip10-link` doctype, as well as use for authentication.

Reviewer: My bad, ty 🙏

## Overview: Ceramic and blockchain accounts

> Ceramic interacts with blockchain accounts in two ways:

Reviewer 2: There are actually 3 ways listed in this page: authentication, linking, and validation.  Why not list all 3 here and handle them equivalently?

Author: Validation is a counterpart of linking. Linking does not make sense without validation. Technically it is linking/validation (operations) that together comprise the linking process (human point of view). But, authentication is kind of independent. That was the reasoning.

> - authentication,

Reviewer 2: I found this page helpful when thinking about how to punctuate bulleted lists: https://www.businesswritingblog.com/business_writing/2012/01/punctuating-bullet-points.html

i.e., a well-known payload is really signed by the account that is declared in the link.

## Adding a new blockchain

To add a new blockchain one have to do both linking and validation sections. 

### Linking

We use [CAIP-10](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-10.md) to represent accounts in a blockchain agnostic way.
If the blockchain you want to add isn't already part of the CAIP standards you should make sure to add it there.

To add a new blockchain, one has to implement a new class implementing [AuthProvider](https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic/blob/develop/packages/blockchain-utils-linking/src/auth-provider.ts), put it
into [`@ceramicnetwork/blockchain-utils-linking`](https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic/tree/develop/packages/blockchain-utils-linking) package and export it.
See existing auth providers for inspiration.

Auth provider is expected to be mainly called in a web browser as part of [3id-connect](https://github.com/3box/3id-connect) flow.
Auth provider sits between 3id-connect (or 3ID DID Provider) and your blockchain account provider. In case of Ethereum,
it might be MetaMask. Auth provider is responsible mainly for:

> - authentication (`#authenticate`): provide entropy,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- authentication (`#authenticate`): provide entropy
```

> - creating link (`#createLink`): create a LinkProof object which associates the specified AccountID with the DID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- creating link (`#createLink`): create a LinkProof object which associates the specified AccountID with the DID
```

Auth provider is expected to know which blockchain account it currently serves. It reports it via `#accountId`.

> To reuse same internal settings, e.g. connection to blockchain provider, but with a different account,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To reuse the same internal settings, e.g. a connection to a blockchain provider, but with a different account,
```

> auth provider should have `#withAddress` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
auth provider should have a `#withAddress` method.
```

To sum it all up, to add a new blockchain for linking:

> - add new class implementing `AuthProvider` interface to `@ceramicnetwork/blockchain-utils-linking` package,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- add a new class implementing the `AuthProvider` interface to the `@ceramicnetwork/blockchain-utils-linking` package.
```

> - its `authenticate` method should ask blockchain provider for an authentication signature and return 32 bytes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- its `authenticate` method should ask the blockchain provider for an authentication signature and return 32 bytes
```

>   in form of `0x`-prefixed hex string,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  in the form of a `0x`-prefixed hex string.
```

> - its `createLink` method should ask blockchain provider for linking signature and return `LinkProof` data structure,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- its `createLink` method should ask the blockchain provider for a linking signature and return a `LinkProof` data structure.
```

> - its `accountId` method should return currently used account in CAIP-10 format,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- its `accountId` method should return the currently used account in CAIP-10 format.
```

> - its `withAccount` method should return a new instance of auth provider that serves a new account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- its `withAccount` method should return a new instance of AuthProvider that serves a new account.
```

Author: "the auth provider" then

### Validation

> It is a counterpart of [#linking] that checks if signature contained in `LinkProof` corresponds to declared account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Validation is the counterpart of [#linking] that checks if the signature contained in a `LinkProof` corresponds to the declared account.
```

To add a new blockchain:

> - add a new file named after your blockchain to `@ceramicnetwork/blockchain-utils-validation` package,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- add a new file named after your blockchain to the `@ceramicnetwork/blockchain-utils-validation` package.
```

> - this file should expose `BlockchainHandler` structure, having:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- this file should expose an implementation of the `BlockchainHandler` interface, having:
```

>     - CAIP-10 namespace for your blockchain,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - the CAIP-10 name of your blockchain
```

Reviewer: It should be "`CAIP-2` namespece" actually!

Reviewer: CAIP-10 descripes a blockchain accountId based on caip-2

Reviewer 2: Is a `CAIP-2` actually a "namespace"?  Should this just be "the CAIP-2 name of your blockchain"?

Author: it is CAIP-2 _namespace_ indeed, as per spec https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-2.md

Reviewer: Are we referring to *namespace* (without *reference*) or *chain_id* here?

Reviewer 2: > it is CAIP-2 _namespace_ indeed, as per spec https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-2.md

Ah cool, good to know!

Author: Namespace. Definitely.

Reviewer 2: > Are we referring to _namespace_ (without _reference_) or _chain_id_ here?

Since CAIP-10 links are to a specific address, I imagine that must be on a specific chain, so this should probably actually be `chain_id` no?

Author: chain id is `namespace` + `reference`.

Assumption here is blockchains under the same namespace share the same signature mechanism, so linking/validation are scoped per namespace.

Reviewer: Makes sense, thanks!

>     - `validateLink` function: it checks if linking signature was created by an account declared in `LinkProof` argument,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - a `validateLink` function that checks if the linking signature was created by the account declared in the `LinkProof` argument
```

> - add the newly created `BlockchainHandler` to `handlers` list in [index.ts](https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic/blob/develop/packages/blockchain-utils-validation/src/index.ts).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- add the newly created `BlockchainHandler` to the `handlers` list in [index.ts](https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic/blob/develop/packages/blockchain-utils-validation/src/index.ts).
```

> Make sure that `validateLink` could validate links created by `AuthProvider#createLink`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that `validateLink` can validate links created by `AuthProvider#createLink`.
```
